---
identifier: 202409251459
---
traits: [[zettelkasten]] [[tech notes]] [[Note taking]]
refs: https://www.reddit.com/r/Zettelkasten/comments/111f65v/how_do_you_manage_technical_notes/
# A Guide for Tech Notes In Zettelkasten
@taeboo:
> The thing to watch out with technical notes is ==a temptation to re-create documentation for everything==. It's a game you just cannot win. There will always be a version online that's more detailed and more up to date than your local one. It doesn't mean technical notes can't have value of course. You just need to ==concentrate on things that a quick google search can't replace==.

> One obvious example is ==complete solutions to particular problems==. Finding a working one often takes time quite a bit of research. You often need to go through a number of sources, dig deep into discussions etc. Some of those solutions involve multiple technologies at the same time. But the most valuable bit is personal experience of applying all of that found advice and seeing for yourself what actually works and what does not.

> When learning new things, the most important result of note-taking process may not even be information written down for future access but understanding gained while doing it. You don't need to document 100% of the things you are learning, but for some things you may want to retain an "explain me like I'm 5" summary that you can use to re-understand it at a later date, a quick example or two, a link to best online documentation you found on the topic, mentions of some particularly good books or articles that touch on it. It also helps to write down search queries that you tried to use while researching the topic. The “wrong” ones are particularly valuable as they may help you to find the “right” thing in the future when you don’t quite remember what it is. And there definitely can be thoughts related to technical topics. You could connect them to past projects where that knowledge could have been useful or ponder where you can use them in the future. You can also compare things with other things you know looking for differences and similarities. In some cases you will see parallels with things that aren't even technical.

> Try to keep note-taking process as simple and natural as possible. Don't invent perfect routines and force them on yourself as that can create so much friction, you may stop learning all together. Building a complex network of thoughts, ideas and bits of knowledge is not easy. You often need to understand things really well to be able to arrange them in a way that makes sense. Take your time. If you are going through a book or course, create a "literature" note first. Write down things as you come across them chronologically. Once done, you can go through such an all-containing note and pick up bits that you want to turn into separate notes and retain long term. If you stumble upon something out of context, make an atomic note right away. Do what makes sense at each particular moment.